[Barry] CookieDough711 and boorider123 have requested that we do a granola bar!
[Ben] So that's what we're gonna do, and at the same time,
[Ben] it's gonna cover up for those of you who want a breakfast for on the go.
[Barry] Perfect!
[Ben] So 2 in 1.
[Ben] We're gonna do a granola bar so it's based on oats
[Ben] and beyond that lots of nuts and dried fruit and bits and pieces, okay?
[Ben] So that's what we're gonna do.
[Barry] Very healthy.
[Ben] Kinda healthy. High in sugar, but other than that quite healthy.
[Ben] A tin of condensed milk,
[Barry] Yep.
[Ben] If you could just open that one cos that's what we're gonna use to bind everything together.
[Ben] We've got 250g of porridge oats here.
[Ben] And to that we're gonna add 350g of bits.
[Ben] And at this point, you can put whatever bits in you'd like.
[Ben] Okay, keep it dried fruit, and or nuts.
[Ben] But you could use pumpkin seeds as well, they work really well or sunflower seeds.
[Barry] Bird seeds
[Ben] You could put in some dried mango–they pretty much are bird seeds.
[Ben] But in these, they work really really well.
[Ben] So we've got our almonds,
[Ben] our cranberries and sultanas,
[Barry] It's really sweet, this.
[Ben] Yea, it's just sugars in the milk reduced down to a really syrupy consistency .
[Ben] So that's fine. So pop that in there and start mixing.
[Barry] All of it?
[Ben] All of it. AAnd this is how easy this recipe is. The whole tin.
[Barry] Gonna do a height of how high it can go.
[Ben] Got a good drizzle going on there.
[Ben] Don't forget to scoop.
[Ben] Your arms aren't long enough are they really? Let's be fair.
[Ben] You do that, I'll take it down there.
[Barry] We good?
[Ben] No we need all that in there, scoop all that out.
[Ben] Meanwhile these pecans, I think pecans are a little bit big/
[Ben] so i'm just going to cut them in half.
[Ben] So this is very much pick and mix this.
[Barry] It's really sticky!
[Ben] So think of like a flapjack, which uses mainly porridge oats and butter and syrup.
[Ben] It's even easier because the condensed milk takes all the hassle out of it
[Ben] and there's so many more bits in this than there would be in a flapjack. And nuts as well.
[Ben] And the final bit, just a small knob of butter–if I reach under you there–
[Ben] melted, that's gonna go in there. It's about 40g.
[Ben] Just enough to help bind it altogether.
[Ben] Now at this stage, you can bake it off in any container you've got.
[Ben] The key: make sure you've got something lining the bottom.
[Ben] Cause it is sticky stuff.
[Barry] I probably used the smallest spoon ever i just realised.
[Ben] Do you know what? Someone commented the other day, you can't stop eating as well.
[Ben] That you of all people, you nibble on everything.
[Barry] Do you have an issue now to that?
[Ben] There we go, so that's gonna go into there.
[Barry] That is really good already.
[Ben] I tell you what, it's not far off a cereal mix, really.
[Ben] A good sort of muesli mix.
[Barry] Could you have that with a bit of yoghurt?
[Ben] They're different than porridge oats. The porridge oats at this stage are raw.
[Ben] So they're not quite as good- they're not a problem, but they're not quite as good once you bake them or cook them out with milk.
[Barry] ok
[Ben] So i'm just gonna grab a nice, flat clean spoon to push it down,
[Ben] to all the corners. And then Baz straight into our oven,
[Barry] How long for?
[Ben] 175ºC, for 30 minutes and it should go nice and golden around the edges,
[Ben] but it will still look pale and almost uncooked on top.
[Ben] It's not like a flapjack. It won't go golden, but it is still absolutely perfect.
[Ben] Now after half and hour in the oven, they're gonna come out.
[Ben] Let them cool in the tin, tip it out, cut it up into monster slices.
[Ben] Because it's so cheap, so much cheaper than the ones you buy in the shop.
[Ben] Remember, we want that golden colour around the edge but still quite pale on top.
[Barry] So for CookieDough711 and boorider123, that is pretty much it.
[Ben] Absolutely, it's our ultimate granola bars, SORTED.
[Barry] Beautiful.
[Ben] Sweet, chewy, crunchy,
[Barry] Great for the go.
[Ben] Absolutely.
[Barry] mm! Oh my god!